docs/agents/maintenance.md, before:

---
paths: /**/{AGENTS,CLAUDE,.aider}.md, /**/.cursorrules, /.github/copilot-instructions.md, /**/docs/agents/*.md, /**/.claude/rules/**/*.md
---

# Agent Documentation Maintenance

## Core Principles

- No common knowledge
- ~50 lines max per file (except AGENTS.md if needed for compliance)
- Reference > copy: point to source files, don't embed
- Progressive disclosure: load only relevant context per task
- Effectiveness > brevity: force agents to read docs before acting

## AGENTS.md Structure

- AGENTS.md = navigation + blocking instructions
- May exceed ~15-20 lines if needed to force compliance
- Include checklist, consequences, trigger-based instructions
- Points to docs/agents/\*.md for detailed guidelines
- Use ALL CAPS for imperative keywords (READ, BEFORE, NEVER, ALWAYS, MUST)

## File Naming

- Canonical: AGENTS.md
- Symlinks: CLAUDE.md, .aider.md, .cursorrules → AGENTS.md
- Agent docs: .claude/rules/agents → docs/agents (for Claude Desktop)

## Frontmatter

- Use `paths:` to specify where the doc applies

## When to Update

- New patterns/conventions adopted
- Confusion during development
- Non-obvious architectural decisions

## When NOT to Update

- Implementation details (use code comments)
- Temporary workarounds
- Information in standard docs

See: Code examples in actual source files, not in docs

Commit message:

docs(agents): refine documentation tone and add example guidelines
Softens aggressive language in AGENTS.md while maintaining effectiveness. Adds principle to avoid inline code examples, directing agents to comprehensive docs and source code instead. Restructures maintenance.md for clarity.

docs/agents/maintenance.md, after:

---
paths: /**/{AGENTS,CLAUDE,.aider}.md, /**/.cursorrules, /.github/copilot-instructions.md, /**/docs/agents/*.md, /**/.claude/rules/**/*.md
---

# Agent Documentation Maintenance

## Core Principles

- No common knowledge
- ~50 lines max per file (except AGENTS.md if needed for compliance)
- Reference > copy: point to source files, don't embed
- Progressive disclosure: load only relevant context per task
- Effectiveness > brevity: force agents to read docs before acting
- No inline examples: agents MUST read comprehensive docs and source code

## AGENTS.md Structure

- AGENTS.md = navigation + blocking instructions
- May exceed ~15-20 lines if needed to force compliance
- Include checklist, trigger-based instructions
- Points to docs/agents/\*.md for detailed guidelines
- Use ALL CAPS for imperative keywords (READ, BEFORE, NEVER, ALWAYS, MUST)
- NEVER include code examples or violation demonstrations

## File Naming

- Canonical: AGENTS.md
- Symlinks: CLAUDE.md, .aider.md, .cursorrules → AGENTS.md
- Agent docs: .claude/rules/agents → docs/agents (for Claude Desktop)

## Frontmatter

- Use `paths:` to specify where the doc applies

## When to Update

- New patterns/conventions adopted
- Confusion during development
- Non-obvious architectural decisions

## What NOT to Include

- Implementation details (use code comments)
- Temporary workarounds
- Information in standard docs
- Code examples or snippets (point to source files instead)
- Violation demonstrations (agents learn from comprehensive docs)
