packages/driver-or-we-516/README.md, before:

# @ya-modbus/driver-or-we-516

ORNO OR-WE-516 3-Phase Energy Meter driver for ya-modbus.

## Device Information

- **Manufacturer**: ORNO
- **Model**: OR-WE-516
- **Type**: 3-Phase Energy Meter with RS-485, 80A, MID
- **Communication**: Modbus RTU
- **Default Settings**:
  - Address: 1
  - Baud rate: 9600
  - Parity: Odd
  - Stop bits: 1
  - Data bits: 8

## Installation

```bash
npm install @ya-modbus/driver-or-we-516
```

## Usage

<!-- embedme examples/example-rtu.ts -->

```ts
#!/usr/bin/env tsx
import { createRTUTransport } from '@ya-modbus/transport'

import { createDriver, DEFAULT_CONFIG } from '@ya-modbus/driver-or-we-516'

const port = process.argv[2] ?? '/dev/ttyUSB0'
const slaveId = parseInt(process.argv[3] ?? String(DEFAULT_CONFIG.defaultAddress), 10)

// Create transport with default configuration
const transport = await createRTUTransport({
  port,
  baudRate: DEFAULT_CONFIG.baudRate,
  parity: DEFAULT_CONFIG.parity,
  dataBits: DEFAULT_CONFIG.dataBits,
  stopBits: DEFAULT_CONFIG.stopBits,
  slaveId,
  timeout: 1000,
})

try {
  // Create driver
  const driver = await createDriver({ transport })

  // Read voltages and frequency
  const values = await driver.readDataPoints([
    'voltage_l1',
    'voltage_l2',
    'voltage_l3',
    'frequency',
  ])
  console.log(values)

  // Read total active energy
  const energy = await driver.readDataPoint('active_energy_total')
  console.log(`Total energy: ${String(energy)} kWh`)

  // Read all power values
  const power = await driver.readDataPoints([
    'active_power_total',
    'reactive_power_total',
    'apparent_power_total',
    'power_factor_total',
  ])
  console.log(power)

  // Change device address from 1 to 5
  await driver.writeDataPoint('device_address', 5)
  console.log('Device address changed to 5')

  // Set baud rate to 4800
  await driver.writeDataPoint('baud_rate', 4800)
  console.log('Baud rate changed to 4800')

  // Set S0 output rate (impulses per kWh)
  await driver.writeDataPoint('s0_output_rate', 1000.0)
  console.log('S0 output rate set to 1000')

  // Set combined code for bidirectional energy calculation
  await driver.writeDataPoint('combined_code', 5)
  console.log('Combined code set to 5')
} finally {
  await transport.close()
}
```

### Using Default Configuration

The driver exports a `DEFAULT_CONFIG` constant with factory-default device settings:

<!-- embedme examples/example-rtu.ts#L9-L18 -->

```ts
// Create transport with default configuration
const transport = await createRTUTransport({
  port,
  baudRate: DEFAULT_CONFIG.baudRate,
  parity: DEFAULT_CONFIG.parity,
  dataBits: DEFAULT_CONFIG.dataBits,
  stopBits: DEFAULT_CONFIG.stopBits,
  slaveId,
  timeout: 1000,
})
```

## Data Points

### Device Information

| ID                 | Name             | Type    | Access     | Description                           |
| ------------------ | ---------------- | ------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------- |
| `serial_number`    | Serial Number    | integer | Read-only  | Device serial number (32-bit)         |
| `device_address`   | Device Address   | integer | Read-write | Modbus address (1-247)                |
| `baud_rate`        | Baud Rate        | enum    | Read-write | Baud rate (1200, 2400, 4800, 9600)    |
| `software_version` | Software Version | float   | Read-only  | Firmware version                      |
| `hardware_version` | Hardware Version | float   | Read-only  | Hardware revision                     |
| `ct_rate`          | CT Rate          | integer | Read-only  | Current transformer ratio             |
| `s0_output_rate`   | S0 Output Rate   | float   | Read-write | S0 pulse output rate (imp/kWh)        |
| `cycle_time`       | Cycle Time       | integer | Read-write | Measurement cycle time (0-65535)      |
| `combined_code`    | Combined Code    | integer | Read-write | Bidirectional energy calculation mode |

### Real-time Measurements

| ID                     | Name                 | Type  | Unit | Access    | Description                  |
| ---------------------- | -------------------- | ----- | ---- | --------- | ---------------------------- |
| `voltage_l1`           | L1 Voltage           | float | V    | Read-only | Phase L1 voltage             |
| `voltage_l2`           | L2 Voltage           | float | V    | Read-only | Phase L2 voltage             |
| `voltage_l3`           | L3 Voltage           | float | V    | Read-only | Phase L3 voltage             |
| `frequency`            | Grid Frequency       | float | Hz   | Read-only | Grid frequency               |
| `current_l1`           | L1 Current           | float | A    | Read-only | Phase L1 current             |
| `current_l2`           | L2 Current           | float | A    | Read-only | Phase L2 current             |
| `current_l3`           | L3 Current           | float | A    | Read-only | Phase L3 current             |
| `active_power_total`   | Total Active Power   | float | kW   | Read-only | Total active power           |
| `active_power_l1`      | L1 Active Power      | float | kW   | Read-only | Phase L1 active power        |
| `active_power_l2`      | L2 Active Power      | float | kW   | Read-only | Phase L2 active power        |
| `active_power_l3`      | L3 Active Power      | float | kW   | Read-only | Phase L3 active power        |
| `reactive_power_total` | Total Reactive Power | float | kVAr | Read-only | Total reactive power         |
| `reactive_power_l1`    | L1 Reactive Power    | float | kVAr | Read-only | Phase L1 reactive power      |
| `reactive_power_l2`    | L2 Reactive Power    | float | kVAr | Read-only | Phase L2 reactive power      |
| `reactive_power_l3`    | L3 Reactive Power    | float | kVAr | Read-only | Phase L3 reactive power      |
| `apparent_power_total` | Total Apparent Power | float | kVA  | Read-only | Total apparent power         |
| `apparent_power_l1`    | L1 Apparent Power    | float | kVA  | Read-only | Phase L1 apparent power      |
| `apparent_power_l2`    | L2 Apparent Power    | float | kVA  | Read-only | Phase L2 apparent power      |
| `apparent_power_l3`    | L3 Apparent Power    | float | kVA  | Read-only | Phase L3 apparent power      |
| `power_factor_total`   | Total Power Factor   | float | -    | Read-only | Total power factor (-1 to 1) |
| `power_factor_l1`      | L1 Power Factor      | float | -    | Read-only | Phase L1 power factor        |
| `power_factor_l2`      | L2 Power Factor      | float | -    | Read-only | Phase L2 power factor        |
| `power_factor_l3`      | L3 Power Factor      | float | -    | Read-only | Phase L3 power factor        |

### Energy Counters

| ID                           | Name                       | Type  | Unit  | Access    | Description              |
| ---------------------------- | -------------------------- | ----- | ----- | --------- | ------------------------ |
| `active_energy_total`        | Total Active Energy        | float | kWh   | Read-only | Total active energy      |
| `active_energy_l1`           | L1 Total Active Energy     | float | kWh   | Read-only | Phase L1 active energy   |
| `active_energy_l2`           | L2 Total Active Energy     | float | kWh   | Read-only | Phase L2 active energy   |
| `active_energy_l3`           | L3 Total Active Energy     | float | kWh   | Read-only | Phase L3 active energy   |
| `active_energy_forward`      | Forward Active Energy      | float | kWh   | Read-only | Forward (import) active  |
| `active_energy_forward_l1`   | L1 Forward Active Energy   | float | kWh   | Read-only | L1 forward active        |
| `active_energy_forward_l2`   | L2 Forward Active Energy   | float | kWh   | Read-only | L2 forward active        |
| `active_energy_forward_l3`   | L3 Forward Active Energy   | float | kWh   | Read-only | L3 forward active        |
| `active_energy_reverse`      | Reverse Active Energy      | float | kWh   | Read-only | Reverse (export) active  |
| `active_energy_reverse_l1`   | L1 Reverse Active Energy   | float | kWh   | Read-only | L1 reverse active        |
| `active_energy_reverse_l2`   | L2 Reverse Active Energy   | float | kWh   | Read-only | L2 reverse active        |
| `active_energy_reverse_l3`   | L3 Reverse Active Energy   | float | kWh   | Read-only | L3 reverse active        |
| `reactive_energy_total`      | Total Reactive Energy      | float | kVArh | Read-only | Total reactive energy    |
| `reactive_energy_l1`         | L1 Reactive Energy         | float | kVArh | Read-only | Phase L1 reactive energy |
| `reactive_energy_l2`         | L2 Reactive Energy         | float | kVArh | Read-only | Phase L2 reactive energy |
| `reactive_energy_l3`         | L3 Reactive Energy         | float | kVArh | Read-only | Phase L3 reactive energy |
| `reactive_energy_forward`    | Forward Reactive Energy    | float | kVArh | Read-only | Forward reactive energy  |
| `reactive_energy_forward_l1` | L1 Forward Reactive Energy | float | kVArh | Read-only | L1 forward reactive      |
| `reactive_energy_forward_l2` | L2 Forward Reactive Energy | float | kVArh | Read-only | L2 forward reactive      |
| `reactive_energy_forward_l3` | L3 Forward Reactive Energy | float | kVArh | Read-only | L3 forward reactive      |
| `reactive_energy_reverse`    | Reverse Reactive Energy    | float | kVArh | Read-only | Reverse reactive energy  |
| `reactive_energy_reverse_l1` | L1 Reverse Reactive Energy | float | kVArh | Read-only | L1 reverse reactive      |
| `reactive_energy_reverse_l2` | L2 Reverse Reactive Energy | float | kVArh | Read-only | L2 reverse reactive      |
| `reactive_energy_reverse_l3` | L3 Reverse Reactive Energy | float | kVArh | Read-only | L3 reverse reactive      |

## Register Mapping

| Range         | Registers  | Type    | Description                    |
| ------------- | ---------- | ------- | ------------------------------ |
| 0x0000-0x003B | 60 (120 B) | Holding | Device info + real-time values |
| 0x0042        | 1 (2 B)    | Holding | Combined code (config)         |
| 0x0100-0x012F | 48 (96 B)  | Holding | Energy counters                |

All float values are IEEE 754 single-precision (32-bit) big-endian.

## Configuration

### Change Device Address

<!-- embedme examples/example-rtu.ts#L46-L47 -->

```ts
// Change device address from 1 to 5
await driver.writeDataPoint('device_address', 5)
```

### Change Baud Rate

<!-- embedme examples/example-rtu.ts#L50-L51 -->

```ts
// Set baud rate to 4800
await driver.writeDataPoint('baud_rate', 4800)
```

### Configure S0 Pulse Output

<!-- embedme examples/example-rtu.ts#L54-L55 -->

```ts
// Set S0 output rate (impulses per kWh)
await driver.writeDataPoint('s0_output_rate', 1000.0)
```

### Configure Combined Code (Bidirectional Mode)

<!-- embedme examples/example-rtu.ts#L58-L59 -->

```ts
// Set combined code for bidirectional energy calculation
await driver.writeDataPoint('combined_code', 5)
```

## License

GPL-3.0-or-later

Commit message:

fix: configure ESLint import ordering for @ya-modbus packages
Add explicit pathGroups configuration to treat @ya-modbus/* packages
as internal. This ensures consistent import ordering between local
development and CI environments. Internal packages are now sorted
alphabetically without blank lines between them.

packages/driver-or-we-516/README.md, after:

# @ya-modbus/driver-or-we-516

ORNO OR-WE-516 3-Phase Energy Meter driver for ya-modbus.

## Device Information

- **Manufacturer**: ORNO
- **Model**: OR-WE-516
- **Type**: 3-Phase Energy Meter with RS-485, 80A, MID
- **Communication**: Modbus RTU
- **Default Settings**:
  - Address: 1
  - Baud rate: 9600
  - Parity: Odd
  - Stop bits: 1
  - Data bits: 8

## Installation

```bash
npm install @ya-modbus/driver-or-we-516
```

## Usage

<!-- embedme examples/example-rtu.ts -->

```ts
#!/usr/bin/env tsx
import { createDriver, DEFAULT_CONFIG } from '@ya-modbus/driver-or-we-516'
import { createRTUTransport } from '@ya-modbus/transport'

const port = process.argv[2] ?? '/dev/ttyUSB0'
const slaveId = parseInt(process.argv[3] ?? String(DEFAULT_CONFIG.defaultAddress), 10)

// Create transport with default configuration
const transport = await createRTUTransport({
  port,
  baudRate: DEFAULT_CONFIG.baudRate,
  parity: DEFAULT_CONFIG.parity,
  dataBits: DEFAULT_CONFIG.dataBits,
  stopBits: DEFAULT_CONFIG.stopBits,
  slaveId,
  timeout: 1000,
})

try {
  // Create driver
  const driver = await createDriver({ transport })

  // Read voltages and frequency
  const values = await driver.readDataPoints([
    'voltage_l1',
    'voltage_l2',
    'voltage_l3',
    'frequency',
  ])
  console.log(values)

  // Read total active energy
  const energy = await driver.readDataPoint('active_energy_total')
  console.log(`Total energy: ${String(energy)} kWh`)

  // Read all power values
  const power = await driver.readDataPoints([
    'active_power_total',
    'reactive_power_total',
    'apparent_power_total',
    'power_factor_total',
  ])
  console.log(power)

  // Change device address from 1 to 5
  await driver.writeDataPoint('device_address', 5)
  console.log('Device address changed to 5')

  // Set baud rate to 4800
  await driver.writeDataPoint('baud_rate', 4800)
  console.log('Baud rate changed to 4800')

  // Set S0 output rate (impulses per kWh)
  await driver.writeDataPoint('s0_output_rate', 1000.0)
  console.log('S0 output rate set to 1000')

  // Set combined code for bidirectional energy calculation
  await driver.writeDataPoint('combined_code', 5)
  console.log('Combined code set to 5')
} finally {
  await transport.close()
}
```

### Using Default Configuration

The driver exports a `DEFAULT_CONFIG` constant with factory-default device settings:

<!-- embedme examples/example-rtu.ts#L9-L18 -->

```ts
const transport = await createRTUTransport({
  port,
  baudRate: DEFAULT_CONFIG.baudRate,
  parity: DEFAULT_CONFIG.parity,
  dataBits: DEFAULT_CONFIG.dataBits,
  stopBits: DEFAULT_CONFIG.stopBits,
  slaveId,
  timeout: 1000,
})
```

## Data Points

### Device Information

| ID                 | Name             | Type    | Access     | Description                           |
| ------------------ | ---------------- | ------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------- |
| `serial_number`    | Serial Number    | integer | Read-only  | Device serial number (32-bit)         |
| `device_address`   | Device Address   | integer | Read-write | Modbus address (1-247)                |
| `baud_rate`        | Baud Rate        | enum    | Read-write | Baud rate (1200, 2400, 4800, 9600)    |
| `software_version` | Software Version | float   | Read-only  | Firmware version                      |
| `hardware_version` | Hardware Version | float   | Read-only  | Hardware revision                     |
| `ct_rate`          | CT Rate          | integer | Read-only  | Current transformer ratio             |
| `s0_output_rate`   | S0 Output Rate   | float   | Read-write | S0 pulse output rate (imp/kWh)        |
| `cycle_time`       | Cycle Time       | integer | Read-write | Measurement cycle time (0-65535)      |
| `combined_code`    | Combined Code    | integer | Read-write | Bidirectional energy calculation mode |

### Real-time Measurements

| ID                     | Name                 | Type  | Unit | Access    | Description                  |
| ---------------------- | -------------------- | ----- | ---- | --------- | ---------------------------- |
| `voltage_l1`           | L1 Voltage           | float | V    | Read-only | Phase L1 voltage             |
| `voltage_l2`           | L2 Voltage           | float | V    | Read-only | Phase L2 voltage             |
| `voltage_l3`           | L3 Voltage           | float | V    | Read-only | Phase L3 voltage             |
| `frequency`            | Grid Frequency       | float | Hz   | Read-only | Grid frequency               |
| `current_l1`           | L1 Current           | float | A    | Read-only | Phase L1 current             |
| `current_l2`           | L2 Current           | float | A    | Read-only | Phase L2 current             |
| `current_l3`           | L3 Current           | float | A    | Read-only | Phase L3 current             |
| `active_power_total`   | Total Active Power   | float | kW   | Read-only | Total active power           |
| `active_power_l1`      | L1 Active Power      | float | kW   | Read-only | Phase L1 active power        |
| `active_power_l2`      | L2 Active Power      | float | kW   | Read-only | Phase L2 active power        |
| `active_power_l3`      | L3 Active Power      | float | kW   | Read-only | Phase L3 active power        |
| `reactive_power_total` | Total Reactive Power | float | kVAr | Read-only | Total reactive power         |
| `reactive_power_l1`    | L1 Reactive Power    | float | kVAr | Read-only | Phase L1 reactive power      |
| `reactive_power_l2`    | L2 Reactive Power    | float | kVAr | Read-only | Phase L2 reactive power      |
| `reactive_power_l3`    | L3 Reactive Power    | float | kVAr | Read-only | Phase L3 reactive power      |
| `apparent_power_total` | Total Apparent Power | float | kVA  | Read-only | Total apparent power         |
| `apparent_power_l1`    | L1 Apparent Power    | float | kVA  | Read-only | Phase L1 apparent power      |
| `apparent_power_l2`    | L2 Apparent Power    | float | kVA  | Read-only | Phase L2 apparent power      |
| `apparent_power_l3`    | L3 Apparent Power    | float | kVA  | Read-only | Phase L3 apparent power      |
| `power_factor_total`   | Total Power Factor   | float | -    | Read-only | Total power factor (-1 to 1) |
| `power_factor_l1`      | L1 Power Factor      | float | -    | Read-only | Phase L1 power factor        |
| `power_factor_l2`      | L2 Power Factor      | float | -    | Read-only | Phase L2 power factor        |
| `power_factor_l3`      | L3 Power Factor      | float | -    | Read-only | Phase L3 power factor        |

### Energy Counters

| ID                           | Name                       | Type  | Unit  | Access    | Description              |
| ---------------------------- | -------------------------- | ----- | ----- | --------- | ------------------------ |
| `active_energy_total`        | Total Active Energy        | float | kWh   | Read-only | Total active energy      |
| `active_energy_l1`           | L1 Total Active Energy     | float | kWh   | Read-only | Phase L1 active energy   |
| `active_energy_l2`           | L2 Total Active Energy     | float | kWh   | Read-only | Phase L2 active energy   |
| `active_energy_l3`           | L3 Total Active Energy     | float | kWh   | Read-only | Phase L3 active energy   |
| `active_energy_forward`      | Forward Active Energy      | float | kWh   | Read-only | Forward (import) active  |
| `active_energy_forward_l1`   | L1 Forward Active Energy   | float | kWh   | Read-only | L1 forward active        |
| `active_energy_forward_l2`   | L2 Forward Active Energy   | float | kWh   | Read-only | L2 forward active        |
| `active_energy_forward_l3`   | L3 Forward Active Energy   | float | kWh   | Read-only | L3 forward active        |
| `active_energy_reverse`      | Reverse Active Energy      | float | kWh   | Read-only | Reverse (export) active  |
| `active_energy_reverse_l1`   | L1 Reverse Active Energy   | float | kWh   | Read-only | L1 reverse active        |
| `active_energy_reverse_l2`   | L2 Reverse Active Energy   | float | kWh   | Read-only | L2 reverse active        |
| `active_energy_reverse_l3`   | L3 Reverse Active Energy   | float | kWh   | Read-only | L3 reverse active        |
| `reactive_energy_total`      | Total Reactive Energy      | float | kVArh | Read-only | Total reactive energy    |
| `reactive_energy_l1`         | L1 Reactive Energy         | float | kVArh | Read-only | Phase L1 reactive energy |
| `reactive_energy_l2`         | L2 Reactive Energy         | float | kVArh | Read-only | Phase L2 reactive energy |
| `reactive_energy_l3`         | L3 Reactive Energy         | float | kVArh | Read-only | Phase L3 reactive energy |
| `reactive_energy_forward`    | Forward Reactive Energy    | float | kVArh | Read-only | Forward reactive energy  |
| `reactive_energy_forward_l1` | L1 Forward Reactive Energy | float | kVArh | Read-only | L1 forward reactive      |
| `reactive_energy_forward_l2` | L2 Forward Reactive Energy | float | kVArh | Read-only | L2 forward reactive      |
| `reactive_energy_forward_l3` | L3 Forward Reactive Energy | float | kVArh | Read-only | L3 forward reactive      |
| `reactive_energy_reverse`    | Reverse Reactive Energy    | float | kVArh | Read-only | Reverse reactive energy  |
| `reactive_energy_reverse_l1` | L1 Reverse Reactive Energy | float | kVArh | Read-only | L1 reverse reactive      |
| `reactive_energy_reverse_l2` | L2 Reverse Reactive Energy | float | kVArh | Read-only | L2 reverse reactive      |
| `reactive_energy_reverse_l3` | L3 Reverse Reactive Energy | float | kVArh | Read-only | L3 reverse reactive      |

## Register Mapping

| Range         | Registers  | Type    | Description                    |
| ------------- | ---------- | ------- | ------------------------------ |
| 0x0000-0x003B | 60 (120 B) | Holding | Device info + real-time values |
| 0x0042        | 1 (2 B)    | Holding | Combined code (config)         |
| 0x0100-0x012F | 48 (96 B)  | Holding | Energy counters                |

All float values are IEEE 754 single-precision (32-bit) big-endian.

## Configuration

### Change Device Address

<!-- embedme examples/example-rtu.ts#L46-L47 -->

```ts
await driver.writeDataPoint('device_address', 5)
console.log('Device address changed to 5')
```

### Change Baud Rate

<!-- embedme examples/example-rtu.ts#L50-L51 -->

```ts
await driver.writeDataPoint('baud_rate', 4800)
console.log('Baud rate changed to 4800')
```

### Configure S0 Pulse Output

<!-- embedme examples/example-rtu.ts#L54-L55 -->

```ts
await driver.writeDataPoint('s0_output_rate', 1000.0)
console.log('S0 output rate set to 1000')
```

### Configure Combined Code (Bidirectional Mode)

<!-- embedme examples/example-rtu.ts#L58-L59 -->

```ts
await driver.writeDataPoint('combined_code', 5)
console.log('Combined code set to 5')
```

## License

GPL-3.0-or-later
